now the war has taken an unbearable toll
on gaza's children last month images of
a headless baby in Rafa after an Israeli
air strike shocked the world Ahmed was
just 18 months old and he was killed
when Israeli forces targeted a
displacement Camp filled with families
45 people were killed Al jazer spoke to
ahmed's grieving father and brothers
Camille nelc has their story
a family united in
grief Huda dreamed of being a
doctor Aran dreamed of being a
pilot at just 18 months old Ahmed hadn't
yet had a chance to dream of becoming
anything Abu damar's wife and three
children were killed in an Israeli air
strike on a displacement camp in
Rafa saw the bodies of my wife my
daughter Huda my son Aran and my baby
ammed I was told he was headless I just
peaked inside the body bag and saw his
body without a head I couldn't stand to
see anymore I zift it up again and
walked
away decapitated in the blast Ahmed was
among the 45 people killed in the attack
many others at the camp burned alive in
their tents they had been staying in an
Israeli designated safe area they were
killed just 2 days after the
international court of justice ordered
Israel to stop its incursion into
Rafa despite ahmed's violent death This
is how his family tries to remember him
they've kept his toys and
clothes a source of comfort and
pain every time I look at my brother's
belongings I overwhelmed with grief I
hope to be killed so I can join him in
heaven I miss my sister and brothers I
miss them
all I miss my mother my sister Huda and
my two brothers Aran and Ahmed I wish
they'd never been killed I miss them too
much ahmed's head was never found and
his family were forced to bury him
without
it his grave is next to his mother and
siblings in the ruins of Gaza
camil nelc Al
jazer incredibly uh difficult to watch
uh Sim o is spokesperson at unicef's
Middle East and North Africa office and
he joins us now live from Aman I mean
these lives caught short in the most
tragic of ways um the image of of baby
Ahmed a devastating image of the horror
that is this war how does a family and
especially surviving children the
siblings for instance of of ahed you
know faced with this unimaginable trauma
deal with
this well this is this is a big question
and I think this is just uh
unfortunately one of the many stories in
Gaza right now of children forced to
deal with a horrific reality of loss of
trauma of uh uh total Destruction and
and uh yeah the the the whole story is
is even darker than what we see because
it runs deeper uh as as they grow up um
unfortunately this this uh uh uh uh War
has a profound impact uh on on their
psychological uh uh willness and what we
know is before the war started before
the latest escalation started before 7th
of October um there were around 500,000
children in the Gaza Strip who needed
some kind of mental health support now
we know that all of the children in Gaza
need that support and need uh
specialized support in in many many many
cases so uh this is really hard to deal
with the problem now is the services
that are on the ground are almost
non-existent we're talking about the
only psychological uh uh um Psychiatric
Hospital in Gaza has been uh out of
service early on in this escalation and
that means that the basic needs of of
mental health can't be can't be met um
also for children as long as they are
continuing to uh to witness what they
witnessing as long as they continue to
experience what they're experiencing
it's really hard to deal with uh with
the trauma uh the first uh the first
eight principles of of trauma is to
remove the person from the environment
of the trauma that's that's impossible
in Gaza there's no safe place in Gaza
there's no uh yeah there's no place that
feels safe right there no escaping the
The Chronic uh sense of insecurity
displacement death and destruction and I
think what was really difficult to hear
in in that report that package uh that
we just played is um ahmed's the
18-year-old baby um's brother basically
saying you know I'd rather die so that I
can I can meet him again I it's really
difficult I mean how entrenched is this
trauma and how do you see this
generation growing up
well I don't want to lose hope but what
we're seeing is really uh drastic and
this is something that um we have rarely
if ever seen the amount the frequence uh
the frequency uh uh the the extreme
levels of this trauma um is
unprecedented uh almost and uh that that
quote of of the brother I'd rather die
is just a testimony of how deep that
goes and um we have a a helpline uh um
that's running uh in in Gaza for whoever
wants to talk about their mental health
which receives a lot of calls uh each
week and the parents come and and uh one
of the quotes that that I have uh uh
heard is uh the parents are really
struggling because they say we can't
even hold the children to tell them they
are safe now because both we and them
know that we are not safe so when you
can't even hold your child and tell them
it's going to be all right what what
what kind of support can you give really
parents are are facing a horrible
horrible and horrific reality and uh
they're being put in this very difficult
position where they themselves can't
reassure their
children now the El Nar family's
experience of loss um as you uh outlined
as well is being repeated across Gaza um
have we seen an an an uptick or uh a
trend towards children um you know just
not wanting to live anymore just simply
they can't deal with the
situation yes and I think we've heard a
lot of those stories but also we've
heard a lot of of children who can't
deal with the reality they don't even
they can't even express what they want
or what they don't want um um we've
heard from colleagues from people on the
ground from our missions uh on the
ground that children uh with withdrew uh
children stopped uh uh expressing
themselves or even some of them can't
speak uh anymore uh they're uh wiing
their beds at night they're uh uh
there's a lot of self harming happening
uh um there's a lot of not willing uh to
eat or drink so there's a lot of of
symptoms that we are seeing a lot of um
uh if if you if you may uh loss interest
in in life which is really what uh what
kind of not wanting to live is even if
they don't express it and the longer
this trauma continues the the longer and
the harder treatment and and dealing
with these traumas will be that's why
it's really imperative now to to have a
ceas it's really imperative to have Aid
and services at scale going to these
children to help and in hopes to elevate
a little bit of that trauma and
hopefully make room for for uh uh
recovery uh in the
future this is not how childhood should
be um Saleem o the spokesperson at
unicef's Middle East and North Africa
office thank you so
much make sure to sub subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer